.TH HERCULES 1 "May 2013" "Hercules Version 3.08.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
\fBHercules\fR \- IBM System/370, ESA/390, and z/Architecture Emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hercules
[\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\-filename\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR \fIlogo\-filename\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIdyn\-load\-dir\fR] [[\fB\-l\fR \fIdynmod\-to\-load\fR]...]
[> \fIlogfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBHercules\fR is a software implementation of the System/370, ESA/390 and
z/Architecture mainframe architectures.

It means that your PC can emulate an IBM mainframe processor. The mainframe
can range from a System/360 to a z10 - running in "S/370" mode, "ESA/390"
mode, or "z/Architecture" mode.

\fBHercules\fR executes S/370, ESA/390, and z/Architecture instructions and channel
programs. It emulates mainframe I/O devices by using PC devices. For example,
3390 DASD devices are emulated by large files on your hard disk, and local 3270
screens are emulated by tn3270 sessions. (Note: Not all 370 and 390 features
have been implemented in \fBHercules\fR. Also, certain non-standard models, 360/20s,
and the 360/67 virtual memory mode are not emulated.)

\fBHercules\fR implements only the raw S/370, ESA/390, and z/Architecture instruction
set; it does not provide any operating system facilities. This means that you
need to provide an operating system or standalone program which \fBHercules\fR can
load from an emulated disk or tape device. You will have to write the operating
system or standalone program yourself, unless you can manage to obtain
a license from IBM to run one of their operating systems on your PC, or use
IBM programs and operating systems which have been placed in the public domain.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\-filename\fR
Sets the name of the configuration file. The default, if none is specified, is
\fBhercules.cnf\fR. The default may be overridden via the \fBHERCULES_CNF\fR
environment variable.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Specifies that Hercules is to be run in 'daemon' mode, wherein it runs invisibly
with no attached console. 
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIlogo\-filename\fR
Sets the name of the file containg the screen logo that's presented when a 3270
terminal connects. When not specified the default \fBherclogo.txt\fR file is
looked for and when not found the built-in logo is used.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIdyn\-load\-dir\fR
Sets the directory from which dynamic modules are to be loaded. The default depends
on the host platform on which Hercules is being run. This option overrides the default.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIdynmod\-to\-load\fR
Sets the name of an additional dynamic module to be loaded at startup. More than one
additional module may be specified, although each must be preceded with the \fB-l\fR
option specifier.
.TP
\fIlogfile\fR
Sets an optional log file which will receive a copy of all messages displayed
on the control panel 
.SH FILES
.B hercules.cnf
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B HERCULES_CNF
.SH AUTHORS
\fBHercules\fR was created by Roger Bowler. Jay Maynard (“the Tron Guy”) was the maintainer
from 2000 to 2012. Jan Jaeger designed and implemented many of the advanced features
of \fBHercules\fR, including dynamic reconfiguration, integrated console, interpretive
execution and z/Architecture support. A dedicated crew of programmers is constantly
at work implementing new features and fixing bugs.

This manual page was written by Dan Horák using text snippets from the \fBHercules\fR web site.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBHercules\fR Homepage: \fBhttp://www.hercules-390.eu\fR
